with Israel expressing cautious optimism
on the possibility of a ceasefire deal
in Gaza let's now get the view of Hamas
spokesman Usama hamdan is an agreement
close in your
view thank you for having me uh
unfortunately everyone understands now
that what Hamas had said in the last six
months is true that bamin NY and his
government are not willing to achieve an
agreement in fact the Israelis uh in
those two days negotiation rejected the
paper which was introduced by the
Americans in 24th of June based on the
Mr Biden initiative and the the security
Council resolution and also which
considered all the Israeli points they
rejected that even after Hamas have
accepted that and the two days
negotiation they stand against the paper
and they have new ideas which was
discussed before I believe uh we have to
recall what G have said the Army
minister in Israel he said the main
obstacle to achieve an agreement is
Netanyahu he was and he is the obstacle
so I believe in those two days everyone
discovered that the obstacle comes from
the incubation when Hamas accepted the
uh proposals in the 5th of of June
Israel rejected that after four weeks
and when Hamas accepted the paper so
then can I ask you Mr hamdan would Hamas
would would Hamas make compromises then
on a continued Israeli presence in parts
of Gaza if if it meant a temporary
agreement could be
reached well I I think we have
compromised there was a paper introduced
by the mediators and we accepted that in
the 2 of of July and this paper was
clear about the ceasefire the on two on
two levels or two stages and the
withdrawal from Gaza including
Philadelphia and ra Cross Point and it
was clear about the whole issues and it
was considering all the Israel's
questions at that time more than the
questions of Hamas we accepted that but
Israel reacted by assassinating the the
head of the Poli of Hamas
Mr what we have told the the the
mediator the brothers inq and Egypt was
a clear position the United States have
to make a real
pressure can I just clarify forgive me
can I just clarify then following the
assassination of isia does that still
stand with Hamas except a temporary
presence in some shape or form in parts
of Gaza including uh Rafa and that the
Philadelphia Corridor if it meant that
the the bombing and the killing would
would stop at least for a little while
well I have to be clear from day number
one when Baris initiative came to our
hands we've said we will not accept
temporary Arrangements it has been done
in November 2023 and the Israel is
undermined that so we want a full
Arrangement and all the negotiation were
with the mediators on the basis of a
complete Arrangements
including ceasefire and an Israeli with
from all the parsing Gaza on two stages
that was clear two stages the first
stage the first phase for six weeks the
second phase for another six weeks so
all that was was arranged and the
Israelis have accepted that before this
and those days they have rejected that
back saying that they they are
not can I can I ask Mr H can I ask you
though by I understand I understand what
you're saying but by but by insisting
that these that these issues be resolved
at this stage in the process does that
not essentially give the Israelis a
pretext to continue with the war
no well the Israelis have added another
condition they accepted before to
withdraw from narim but now in those
negotiations last two days they have
said they are not willing to withdraw
from narim so they are stepping back not
Hamas is stepping back even after the
assassination for brother
we declared and we informed even the
mediators we will not postpone the
negotiations we are going through
brother is was doing his best to achieve
an agreement and we will follow that
with the new leader of Hamas we informed
everyone that we are going to do that so
the problem came from the Israeli side
who tried to add more conditions who
rejected what he had accepted before
this is the problem Philadelphia was
part of the arrangement which was
proposed to us in the 24th of June and
we accepted that on the 2nd of July now
he is not willing to withdraw after the
pressure of the Americans he said that
he he he is ready just to achieve a kind
of arrangement without a complete
withraw right but you are asking for
conditions that the Israelis are now
saying are completely unacceptable in
terms of removing um the entire security
presence from Gaza
asking for a complete withdrawal much of
this is going to take some time to try
and figure out meanwhile it's been 10
months of War suffering famine despair
really an appalling level of human
suffering in Gaza do you what is going
to happen if this agreement collapses
and there's nothing to come from
this with you that the main purpose for
for all the negotiation to stop the
suffness of the Palestinians to stop
Israel from having the right of killing
the Palestinians what they want and they
have declared in those two days
negotiations they want the right to come
back to the fight even if there was a
prisoner exchange they want to have the
right to attack Gaza whenever they want
they wanted that clearly How can any
Palestinian accept that for them we are
talking about a complete ceas fire and
withdrawal I have to add another thing
in w they are killing the Palestinians
there is no fight there is no clashes
there is no Hamas fighting them but they
are still killing the Palestinians in
Israel they don't need to have an excuse
to kill the Palestinians they just
killed the Palestinians for the killing
itself they want to get rid of the
Palestinians this is why we insist to
have a stable ceasefire a guaranteed
ceas and a complete withdrawal if they
stayed in his they said in Philadelphia
they will keep killing the Palestinians
we want to push them out of Gaza in
order to secure the lives of the
Palestinians not to give the Israelis
the right to attack whenever they want
right Mr Haman thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer